# Modulo7
A semantic and technical analysis of musical scores based on Information Retrieval Principles

OVERVIEW: Modulo7 is an research attempt to build a purely objective music analyzer, statistics miner,
ranking and recommendation engine and genre identifier using music theory and natural language principles. 
Most music recommendation engines take into account user feedback for recommendation and analysis 
purpose and does not take into account music theory. Modulo7 allows comparisons based on both 
simple and complex rules of music theory and would eventually allow extensible rules to be defined 
by users for comparisons. Standard Users will be able to use simple rules for recommendation and statistics
mining, and power users would be able to define their own custom rules for ranking

(MODULO7 IS IN ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT AND NOT READY FOR PRODUCTION USAGE).

Modulo7 has the following broad goals:-

1. A crawling engine that acquires information from various recorded form of music
including acoustic sources (.mp3, .midi etc), sheet music images, lyrics etc. The crawling engine will
run as a daemon/service and acquire these information. Third party libraries like Echo Nest, Google API
as well as hand crafted crawling techniques are used for this purpose (STATUS: UNDER CONSTRUCTION)

2. A vector space model for music. These models will represent music in an abstract form
on which standard and customized rules based on music theory can be applied. Concepts like phrasing analysis,
timber and pitch analysis and custom rules (e.g - a higher number of power chords implies chances of the music 
song being a rock or metal song). The vector space model will include custom similarity measure
and extensible similarity measures based on user input on complex music theory rules(STATUS : UNDER CONSTRUCTION)
THIS COMPONENT IS THE BULK OF THE WORK AND THE NOVELTY OF THE PROJECT.

3. An acoustics miner component. The acoustic miner takes files like (.mp3, .midi) etc
and acquires note, pitch, key and other forms of information from the files. These will be then feed 
to the vector space model component. (STATUS : UNDER CONSTRUCTION)

4. A sheet music miner component. The sheet miner will take western music sheets of the 
form (.png, .jpeg etc) files and extract the notes, key signature from the images. This information
can then be used to create a (STATUS : UNDER INVESTIGATION). 

5. A lyrics analyzer : The lyrics analyzer will take its input from the crawling engine and then make objective
analysis on the lyrics (e.g the vocabulary richness of the song, semantic intent based on context etc).
(STATUS : UNDER INVESTIGATION)

6. Optional : A machine learning component that will convert the vector space model into a feature space model
on which standard machine learning techniques like classification (e.g. for supervised genre id) and clustering
can be applied (STATUS : NOT STARTED)

THE PERL MODULE WAS THE FIRST PROTOTYPE DRAFT OF THE PROJECT AND IS DEPRECATED. THE WHOLE MODULE WILL BE 
REMOVED IN A FUTURE COMMIT OF THE PROJECT.

For the perl modules do (@Deprecated) : -
cd src/main/perl

Pipeline Usage For Perl:

1. $ perl build_song_sources_crawler.pm
This creates song_sources.txt

2. $ perl music_score_crawler.pm
Reads song_sources.txt and creates .nsf and .lyrics files

3. $ perl lyrics_analyzer.pm
Reads .lyrics files. Menu driven and self explanatory

4. $ perl notes_analyzer.pm
Reads .nsf files. Menu driven and self explanatory

5. $ rm *.lyrics *.nsf
To clean up workspace of data files, optionally remove song_sources.txt

Performing frequency analysis:

1. The software used is "Sonic Visualiser" with the plugin "Melodia".

2. Open any song and apply the transformation using the plugin.

3. Save the layer generated by the plugin as a text file.

4. $ perl aggr.prl
Converts the raw frequency in the text file into its equivalent stream of musical notes.

5. The result of the above operation can be fed to note_analyzer.pm
